README.md, before:

# GitHub Copilot Home Assistant Integration

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)
[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]

_Integration to bring GitHub Copilot AI capabilities to Home Assistant._

**This integration provides a conversation agent powered by GitHub Copilot, enabling voice assistants and AI-powered tasks similar to OpenAI, Claude, and Gemini integrations.**

## Features

- 🤖 **Conversation Agent** - Use GitHub Copilot as an AI conversation agent
- 🎤 **Voice Assistant Support** - Works with Home Assistant's voice pipeline
- 🔧 **Configurable Models** - Support for GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, o3-mini, o1, o1-mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, and Claude 3.7 Sonnet
- ⚙️ **Customizable Parameters** - Adjust temperature, max tokens, and more
- 💬 **Context Preservation** - Maintains conversation history within sessions

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in Home Assistant
2. Go to "Integrations"
3. Click the "+" button
4. Search for "GitHub Copilot"
5. Click "Install"
6. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Copy the `custom_components/github_copilot` directory to your Home Assistant `custom_components` directory
2. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

### Setup via UI

1. Go to **Settings** → **Devices & Services**
2. Click **Add Integration**
3. Search for **GitHub Copilot**
4. Enter your GitHub Copilot API token
5. Configure optional settings:
   - **Model**: Select from GPT-4o (default), GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, o3-mini, o1, o1-mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, or Claude 3.7 Sonnet
   - **Maximum Tokens**: Response length (100-4000)
   - **Temperature**: Creativity level (0-2)

### Getting an API Token

To use this integration, you need a GitHub Copilot API token:
1. Ensure you have an active GitHub Copilot subscription
2. Generate an API token from your GitHub settings
3. Keep the token secure

## Usage

### As a Conversation Agent

Once configured, you can:

1. Select GitHub Copilot as a conversation agent in voice assistants
2. Use it in automations via the `conversation.process` service
3. Chat with it through the Home Assistant UI

### Example Automation

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Morning briefing with Copilot"
    trigger:
      - platform: time
        at: "07:00:00"
    action:
      - service: conversation.process
        data:
          text: "Good morning! What should I know today?"
          agent_id: conversation.github_copilot
```

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, see [agents.md](agents.md)

## Troubleshooting

- **Authentication errors**: Verify your API token is valid
- **Connection issues**: Check internet connectivity and GitHub API status
- **Slow responses**: Try reducing max_tokens or using a faster model

For more help, see the [agents.md](agents.md) documentation or [open an issue][issues].

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPLv3 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Built on Home Assistant's conversation framework
- Based on the integration blueprint by [@ludeeus](https://github.com/ludeeus)

---

**Note**: This integration is not officially affiliated with GitHub or Microsoft.

[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/commits/main
[hacs]: https://github.com/hacs/integration
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/releases
[issues]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/issues

Commit message:

Include original MIT license in README
Added original MIT license details from integration blueprint.

README.md, after:

# GitHub Copilot Home Assistant Integration

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub Activity][commits-shield]][commits]
[![License][license-shield]](LICENSE)
[![hacs][hacsbadge]][hacs]

_Integration to bring GitHub Copilot AI capabilities to Home Assistant._

**This integration provides a conversation agent powered by GitHub Copilot, enabling voice assistants and AI-powered tasks similar to OpenAI, Claude, and Gemini integrations.**

## Features

- 🤖 **Conversation Agent** - Use GitHub Copilot as an AI conversation agent
- 🎤 **Voice Assistant Support** - Works with Home Assistant's voice pipeline
- 🔧 **Configurable Models** - Support for GPT-4o, GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, o3-mini, o1, o1-mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, and Claude 3.7 Sonnet
- ⚙️ **Customizable Parameters** - Adjust temperature, max tokens, and more
- 💬 **Context Preservation** - Maintains conversation history within sessions

## Installation

### HACS (Recommended)

1. Open HACS in Home Assistant
2. Go to "Integrations"
3. Click the "+" button
4. Search for "GitHub Copilot"
5. Click "Install"
6. Restart Home Assistant

### Manual Installation

1. Copy the `custom_components/github_copilot` directory to your Home Assistant `custom_components` directory
2. Restart Home Assistant

## Configuration

### Setup via UI

1. Go to **Settings** → **Devices & Services**
2. Click **Add Integration**
3. Search for **GitHub Copilot**
4. Enter your GitHub Copilot API token
5. Configure optional settings:
   - **Model**: Select from GPT-4o (default), GPT-4o-mini, GPT-4, GPT-4 Turbo, GPT-3.5 Turbo, o3-mini, o1, o1-mini, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, or Claude 3.7 Sonnet
   - **Maximum Tokens**: Response length (100-4000)
   - **Temperature**: Creativity level (0-2)

### Getting an API Token

To use this integration, you need a GitHub Copilot API token:
1. Ensure you have an active GitHub Copilot subscription
2. Generate an API token from your GitHub settings
3. Keep the token secure

## Usage

### As a Conversation Agent

Once configured, you can:

1. Select GitHub Copilot as a conversation agent in voice assistants
2. Use it in automations via the `conversation.process` service
3. Chat with it through the Home Assistant UI

### Example Automation

```yaml
automation:
  - alias: "Morning briefing with Copilot"
    trigger:
      - platform: time
        at: "07:00:00"
    action:
      - service: conversation.process
        data:
          text: "Good morning! What should I know today?"
          agent_id: conversation.github_copilot
```

## Documentation

For detailed documentation, see [agents.md](agents.md)

## Troubleshooting

- **Authentication errors**: Verify your API token is valid
- **Connection issues**: Check internet connectivity and GitHub API status
- **Slow responses**: Try reducing max_tokens or using a faster model

For more help, see the [agents.md](agents.md) documentation or [open an issue][issues].

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU GPLv3 - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
Some source code was originally licensed under the MIT license.

## Acknowledgments

- Built on Home Assistant's conversation framework
- Based on the integration blueprint by [@ludeeus](https://github.com/ludeeus)

---

**Note**: This integration is not officially affiliated with GitHub or Microsoft.
## Original MIT license from integration blueprint by [@ludeeus](https://github.com/ludeeus)

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2019 - 2025  Joakim Sørensen @ludeeus

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

[commits-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[commits]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/commits/main
[hacs]: https://github.com/hacs/integration
[hacsbadge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Custom-orange.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration.svg?style=for-the-badge
[releases]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/releases
[issues]: https://github.com/tserra30/Github-Copilot-SDK-integration/issues
